---
layout: post
title: LFTP Intro
---

### Problem: I have a seedbox and for FTP and SFTP connections get limited (probably my ISP?).
They’ll start strong, but quickly get throttled down to 300 kbps.
I know my home connection goes “up to” 2 mbps.


### Solution A:
Download a couple files at a time, with either Transmit or via a couple SCP processes in Screen.
Not ideal as now you’re waiting just a long for a single file, but you’re multitasking.


### Solution B:

1. `split -b 500MB filename.mkv`

2. `scp` them in Screen

3. `cat xa* > filename.mkv`

4. `rm xa*` locally and on the server.

Faster for a single file, but wholly tedious. Lots of parts to remember.
Depending on your file (4GB+ HD files), splitting and catting can take a couple minutes on both ends.


### Solution C: LFTP

1. `lftp` on Mini

2. `open [server name]`

3. `[queue] pget filename.mkv`

Automates the worst parts of Solution B.
Uses segmented downloading, and out of the box it downloads the file in 5 parts, saturating my connection.
Locally there’s no cruft to join or delete. Super fast.


### Key LFTP Commands:

- `open -u [username],[placeholder password] sftp://[server address]` - connect to your remote server

- `pget [filename]` – segmented download of a single file

- `mirror [foldername]` – download a directory

- `queue [command]` – add said command to the task queue. The queue starts immediately.

- `queue` – see current status of queued tasks

- `bookmark add [name]` - save your remote server login information

- `open [name]` - connect to a bookmark


### LFTPRC

Create a .lftprc in your home directory and add these to ensure speedy downloads:

	# use 10 connections by default (instead of the standard 5)
	set pget:default-n 10

	# use segmented downloading for directories
	set mirror:use-pget-n 10

	set mirror:parallel-transfer-count 2
	set mirror:parallel-directories true

